# Dans_ATC24_Clearance_Generator_V3
Dan's ATC24 Clearance Generator V3 is a software designed to help ground controllers deliver their clearances to other aircraft. 

Introducing Dan's ATC24 Clearance Generator V3! I've had many requests regarding on how I quickly generate my Pre-Departure-Clearances (PDCs) when controlling on ATC24, and this is how! My clearance generator, now at it's version 3 allows controllers to easily generate suitable departure clearances that suit the conditions at hand to reduce workload.

# Supported Airports & SID Data
The supported airports are as following:
- IRFD / Greater Rockford International
- IMLR / Mellor International
- ILAR / Larnaca International
- IPAP / Paphos International
- IIAB / Mconnel AFB
- ITKO / Tokyo International
- IPPH / Perth International
- IGRV / Grindavik International
- ISAU / Sauthemptona Internationa

SID data is used from Aeronav Charts. All of these airports do have available charts over at aeronav for you to use:https://aeronav.space/app

# Installation & Updates
Downloading the exe file should be all you need, and if required I have added an .ICO file if you need a copy to add as a desktop shortcut. 
Please keep in mind that this software is designed for Windows on <b> 100% scaling </b>, as some laptops are set to default at 150%, meaning you will either have to turn it down, or else run it on a PC. 

To update the software simply download the new version and replace the old. Simple as that.

# How It Works
When setting up the generator intially, if a valid airport is entered (be aware it is case sensitive), the app automatically gathers 4 sets of data based on the departure runway:
- Short form SID, which allows you to paste into 24Scope without using too much space. eg. LOGAN4.DINER
- Long form SID, which includes the decoded SID, along with the departure runway (this is because some SIDs require vectors after departure. eg. KENED2 DEP - DINER TRANS - AFT DEP RWY 07R TURN LEFT HDG 360 DEGREES
- Short form vector, which includes an abbreviated form of either left, right, or runway heading. eg. RH020
- Long form vector, which includes the decoded version once again with the departure runway. eg. AFT DEP RWY 07R TURN RIGHT HDG 150 DEGREES

Long form data is used for the PDC, and short form is displayed in the app, and gives you the ability to copy it over to 24Scope.

I have gathered all SID and vector data by myself and triple checked everything. If you are wondering how I would gather the data, I simply use the SID or vector that points in the direction of the aircraft's desitnation. Simple, but <b> unbelievably </b> boring.

Previously with version 1 and 2, this data would be gathered every single time only in a slightly different way. Which is extremely inefficent.

After the airport is setup, the clearances table should be ready, meaning you can add in your clearances freely and while all airports may not be supported to generate clearances from, you can enter any airport in PTFS as a destination. 

# How to Use
## Airport Setup
To set up the app to begin generating clearances, you must enter one of the supported airports shown above ^, as well as a valid departure ruwnay. 

<b> Aiport codes must be full caps, as well as any runway identifiers (L,R,C) </b>

<b> Runway 02 at ITKO is not supported due to departures being disallowed. (or so I am told) </b>

<b> Standard initial climb altitudes must be at or above 1000ft, and at or below 5000ft. (ft should not be included with entry, just numerical value) </b>

If you sucessfully entered correct values the clearance table should say <i> READY. </i>

## Adding Clearances (no custom entries)
Adding clearances to the table is unbelievably easy and simple. May I reccomend for realisim that you use <b> full caps </b> when entering anything into the app. Callsign and aicraft types are not validated at all, although destinations are and must be in full caps. 
When selecting a departure method, you have 2 options: vector/custom, or SID. May I also reccomend that you ask the pilot you are generating the clearance for if they are able to fly a SID, as many new pilots are unaware of what a SID is and may become confused/overwhelmed. The vector option instructs the pilot to turn onto a heading after departure, when I gathered my vector data I based the heading on the direction of the aircraft's destination as well as any surrounding terrain. 

Squawks can randomly be generated by entering 3 values into the field: <br>
<i> R, RND, </i> or <i> "" </i> (null)<br>
Clicking into the field will clear the pre-entered value (RND) to allow you to enter a custom squawk code. By default the app will generate a squawk if you do not type any numerical values.

After clicking <i> EXECUTE AND ADD </i>, a PDC will be automatically copied to your clipboard for you to send over, as well as it being added to the array of other PDCs if you would like to recopy it using the <i> COPY PREVIOUS PDCS </i> button. From there, my usual flow is to get the pilots user from 24Scope, find it on discord then ctrl + v it over to them. Then copy the departurture and squawk from the <i> COPY LAST VIA </i> and <i> COPY LAST SQUAWK </i> buttons to ctrl + v them into 24Scope to allow me to have a clear overview next to my radar.

## Custom Data
Adding custom data is where it gets tricky, but once you understand the logic and meaning, it makes sense. 

- When entering a custom departure, you must have the VECTOR/CUSTOM departure method selected
- When entering a custom departure runway OR destination, you must enter a custom departure

And this is how it is validated to make sure everything stays correct. If you disregard multiple rules at one time, the app will prompt you to correct each 1 by 1 until every required field is filled.

## Close Desintaitons
Some destinations that are extremely close to the airport (eg. IGAR from IRFD), may require custom departures to be entered. Or else the vector departure method to be selected instead if you are looking for a SID. Any desintaitons of the same origin airport (eg. IRFD to IRFD) will require a custom departure. (all of this will be alerted to you anyway if something isn't right)

## PDCs And Custom Entries
My app comes with 2 formats of PDCs, the SID and the vector.
When using vectors or SIDs, it is easy to find a regular format to put everything, for example: <i> Cleared {destination} via radar vectors. After departure runway {departureRunway} turn {direction} heading {heading} degrees. </i>
When using custom data, the PDC will be become unavailable. If you attempt to copy the PDC from the custom clearance, then you will be given a placeholder informing you that you must revert to voice to give clearance.

While custom entries may prevent you from using PDCs as they are jumbled up, it will not prevent the format from looking organized on the clearances table.

## Lower Buttons
I have breifely mentioned the some buttons at the bottom of the app that allow you to copy over values, although there are some that haven't been covered.

- <i> COPY LAST PDC </i> - Copies the last generated clearance's PDC 
- <i> COPY PREV PDCS </i> - Allows you to copy any other PDC previously generated (use the index values along the centre and right to select)
- <i> COPY LAST VIA </i> - Allows you to copy the short form SID/Vector value to enter into 24Scope
- <i> COPY LAST SQUAWK </i> - Allows you to copy the squawk to enter into 24Scope
- <i> REMOVE ALL CLEARANCES </i> - Removes all PDCs and clearances. Does not reset the app.
- <i> QUICK GUIDE </i> - Reminds you of 2 hidden keys you may need when adding clearances.

## Colour Customization
As of V3.0.6 you can now customize the spacer colours! Enjoy!

# Reporting Bugs/Getting In Contact
Please be aware that I am relatively new to software development, and I am just here because I enjoy doing so in my free time, so if you find any bugs or would like to get in contact with me regarding this software, please contact me via email: dans24software@outlook.com or discord: dan_da_aviator. 
